### Tips and Pointers for Task Based Modelling Using the Outputs of fMRIPrep Report

Before the start, one should know (and I know hearing this frustrates of all), there is no standard way of modelling your data. It depends on many parameters, including your task design, the contrasts that you are interested in, the way you recorded your data, the noise components you want to exclude from your data, all depends on your final aim to obtain with your data.

Therefore there will be no single pill that works for all (hi Neo :sunglasses: ) but there are some tips to take into consideration in general. So here I will try to curate them in if it would help any at all. 


1. A lot of the noise parameters capture the same noise that would explain the variance comparable to the other regressors. Therefore it would not makes sense to include all of these noise components in your model. Also this is good for avoiding more than necessary regressors to be fitted to the model results in overfitting. 
2. Unless you have a certain artefactual components that you want to remove from your data that you think that explains some noise related variance in your data, then it is better to stick with the basic movement parameters, global signal, white matter, ICA components. 
3. Ring around the brain, those are the components you want to remove, also again depends what you are trying to model. 
4. Each ICA in a participant runs over only on that particular task, not over all tasks. If it was a longitudinal study then fMIRPrep would have been set to run longitidunal analysis, then ICA might have been estimated differently. 
5. Try to look at the ICA components and catch the patterns that you think it is noise component (eg. movement related artefacts or button press related activations around SMC, or horizontal eye movements etc.) or regarding the task related artefacts.
6. ICA components are randomly ordered across runs, participants so there is no 1-1 correspondence between the components across all. 
7. 64 channel coil's resolution is better around the cortex but more deep you go in more you loose the the signal.  
8. You would expect most of the variations to be explained by the CSF mask related components, hence eg. in my data I see ~90 % variations are explained by the CSF mask related components (in Variance explained by t/aCompCor components section of the report).
9. Usually it is rare that people uses these components in their modelling, so we should be alright there.  
10. All these spikes that we observe in the BOLD summary, should be included in the regressor.tsv file. So these reports, or components are usually used to check out how do you see. 
11. The means, max, and standard deviation values that are reported for the BOLD summary components are reported in that particular participant's, that particular task. So when you evaluate, there is no simple way of going through all other participants same parameters and make a meaning out of them. SO these are arbitrary values, so these numbers depends on many parameters (eg. the sequence, the temperature, whether the participant slept before or not etc.) so there is no way of making a meaningful interpretation out of them. 
12. So look at the big spikes, look at the framewise displacement (FD) ,and if you see a huge spike then look at the carpet plot. It will also show that right after the spike it will be showing a sustaining columns of pattern (horizontal pattern) for some time points. So you will also see that the sustaining pattern of noise in the carpet plot shows differing pattern across the rows that are matched with the color codded tissue types. 
13. The graphics in correlations among nuisance regressors, at least everything besides ICA components share the overlapping data. Since ICA supposed to find components orthogonal to each other, so they should never be related, however all those components together compose the data, so they should not share the same amount of variance, because then you would loose explanatory power. 
14. In this correlation plot, the sanity check can be made by looking at whether there is a high correlation between white matter component with the csf_wm component or csf component with csf_wm component since this would be expected given csf_wm contains either. So adding these 3 components into your regression analysis does not make sense given csf_wm contains both but only include csf_wm to get the job done. So for everything else you would like to look how the others correlate with others. 
15. Ideally all these components should be capturing the different elements, noise in your data. However if you see that every single components correlate with the global signal in a super high level then it means something wrong with the data. 
16. As you can see from the plots usually tcompcor is highly correlated with the global signal, so it might not be good to put both the global signal and tcompcor in your modelling again due to the same reason mentioned above, hence they will be capturing the same amount of variance in the data.
17.  You can compare the MRIQC and fMRIprep results and model your data with the least amount of components you should be good. 
18.  Use fitlins
